1. Basic git commands:

List All Branches:
To see local branches, run this command: git branch.
To see remote/github branches, run this command: git branch -r.
To see all local and remote branches, run this command: git branch -a.

Variations in git add command:
a. Does both below 
git add -A (same as git add --all)
b. Stages new + modified files
git add .
c. Stages modified + deleted files
git add -u

Steps to clone, make changes and then push [#IMP]
1. First clone master branch (say prod)
2. Switch to any non-master branch locally (say dev)
3. Make changes in the dev branch locally
4. Add the changes in the dev branch on github (Staging phase)
5. Check the status after staging/adding
6. Commit the changes in the dev branch on github along with the commit description
7. Check the status after committing
8. Finally, push the commit in the dev branch on github
[It is preferred to do steps after Step 9 on github.com and not git CLI]
9. Now, pull request from the owner to verify the changes made in the dev branch 
10. Resolve conflicts, if any in the dev branch with the master branch
11. Request to merge the dev branch with master branch as the owner has the sole power to merge a branch to master
12. If the owner allows, the dev branch gets merged with the master branch successfully

git clone https://github.com/username/repositoryname.git
git add --all or git add . or git <fileName(s)>
git status		
git commit -m 'commit title/description'
git status		
git push https//<tokenNo>@github.com/username/repositoryname.git or git push origin <branchName>

2. Basic Linux Commands:

File & Directory Commands:
1. 	The tilde (~) symbol stands for your home directory. If you are user, then the tilde (~) stands for /home/user

2. 	pwd: The pwd command will allow you to know in which directory you're located (pwd stands for "print working directory"). 
	Example: "pwd" in the Desktop directory will show "~/Desktop". Note that the GNOME Terminal also displays this information 
	in the title bar of its window. A useful gnemonic is "present working directory."

3. 	ls: The ls command will show you ('list') the files in your current directory. Used with certain options, you can see sizes of
	files, when files were made, and permissions of files. Example: "ls ~" will show you the files that are in your home directory.

4. 	cd: The cd command will allow you to change directories. When you open a terminal you will be in your home directory. To move 
	around the file system you will use cd. Examples:

	a. 	To navigate into the root directory, use "cd /"
	b. 	To navigate to your home directory, use "cd" or "cd ~"
	c. 	To navigate up one directory level, use "cd .."
	d. 	To navigate to the previous directory (or back), use "cd -"

e. 	To navigate through multiple levels of directory at once, specify the full directory path that you want to go to. For example, 
	use, "cd /var/www" to go directly to the /www subdirectory of /var/. As another example, "cd ~/Desktop" will move you to the 
	Desktop subdirectory inside your home directory.

5.	cp: The cp command will make a copy of a file for you. Example: "cp file foo" will make an exact copy of "file" and name it "foo", 
	but the file "file" will still be there. If you are copying a directory, you must use "cp -r directory foo" (copy recursively). 
	(To understand what "recursively" means, think of it this way: to copy the directory and all its files and subdirectories and 
	all their files and subdirectories of the subdirectories and all their files, and on and on, "recursively")

6.	mv: The mv command will move a file to a different location or will rename a file. Examples are as follows: "mv file foo" will rename 
	the file "file" to "foo". "mv foo ~/Desktop" will move the file "foo" to your Desktop directory, but it will not rename it. You must 
	specify a new file name to rename a file.

	a. 	To save on typing, you can substitute '~' in place of the home directory.
	b. 	Note that if you are using mv with sudo you can use the ~ shortcut, because the terminal expands the ~ to your home directory. 
		However, when you open a root shell with sudo -i or sudo -s, ~ will refer to the root account's home directory, not your own.

7.	rm: Use this command to remove or delete a file in your directory.

8.	rmdir: The rmdir command will delete an empty directory. To delete a directory and all of its contents recursively, use rm -r instead.

9.	mkdir: The mkdir command will allow you to create directories. Example: "mkdir music" will create a directory called "music".


3. Basic vi commands:

The vi editor has two modes: Command and Insert. When you first open a file with vi, you are in Command mode. Command mode means that you 
can use keyboard keys to navigate, delete, copy, paste, and do a number of other tasks—except entering text. To enter Insert mode, press i. 
In Insert mode, you can enter text, use the Enter key to go to a new line, use the arrow keys to navigate text, and use vi as a free-form 
text editor. To return to Command mode, press the Esc key once.

$ vi <filename>	Open or edit a file.
i				Switch to Insert mode.
Esc				Switch to Command mode.
:w				Save and continue editing.
:wq or ZZ		Save and quit/exit vi.
:q!				Quit vi and do not save changes.
yy				Yank (copy a line of text).
p				Paste a line of yanked text below the current line.
o				Open a new line under the current line.
O				Open a new line above the current line.
A				Append to the end of the line.
a				Append after the cursor's current position.
I				Insert text at the beginning of the current line.
b				Go to the beginning of the word.
e				Go to the end of the word.
x				Delete a single character.
dd				Delete an entire line.
Xdd				Delete X number of lines.
Xyy				Yank X number of lines.
G				Go to the last line in a file.
XG				Go to line X in a file.
gg				Go to the first line in a file.
:num			Display the current line's line number.
h				Move left one character.
j				Move down one line.
k				Move up one line.
l				Move right one character.
